about Australia

With a population of around 25 million people, Australia's culture is stunningly diversified. Beautiful and well-known picturesque vistas, such as the desert and beaches, abound in Australia, as do excellent job prospects in cities such as Sydney, Brisbane, Gold Coast, Adelaide, Perth, and Melbourne. Not to mention the lovely regional regions that are now actively inviting new skilled migrants to contribute to their development. All credit belongs to the tens of thousands of immigrants who arrive in Australia each year. So, if you're thinking about making Australia your home nation, here are the top reasons why individuals opt to move there.

Quality and Standard of Life

Without a question, Australians live in a high-quality environment. People chose this nation as their home because of its low population, little pollution, and abundance of fresh air, as well as its amazing natural landscapes and stunning vistas.

The laid-back lifestyle of Australians is well-known. As a result, they value time spent relaxing with friends and family. Work-life balance is also seen as an art form in Australia, which most Australians excel at. Parties, get-togethers, and family picnics are all part of the Australian way of life.

The Australians settle on the coast because of the abundance of beaches and the coastline's length of over 36,000 kilometers. In addition, locals enjoy activities such as bushwalking, camping, and fishing. Furthermore, with over 500 national parks, this country safeguards its natural heritage.

Education and Career Opportunities

Australia also boasts a world-class educational system, and it is now ranked eighth in the world. There are various prominent universities and schools in this country. Furthermore, all government-run elementary and secondary schools are free, and obligatory education is provided.

The number of industries in Australia has begun to develop as a result of the country's strong economic expansion. As a result, businesses are growing, and migrant workers have a plethora of job prospects and career opportunities.

Pathway to Citizenship

Permanent residents in Australia are eligible to apply for citizenship. Dual citizenship is also recognized in Australia, therefore infants born to permanent residents can petition for citizenship even if their parents do not qualify.

Healthcare Facilities

Medicare, Australia's universal healthcare system, is regarded as one of the greatest in the world. In Australia, health care is both public and free.

The government places a premium on its citizens' health, paying for all of their medical bills.

In addition, the country boasts a well-developed and high-quality healthcare infrastructure. Medicare offers free medical care in public institutions as well as medical treatment subsidies to patients.

The Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, run by the Australian government, subsidizes the cost of various medicines. Private health insurance, which covers the costs of private medical treatment, dental services, podiatry, and the purchase of glasses or lenses, is also an alternative.

Good Climate and Environment

With mild winters and warm summers, Australia's climate stays quite pleasant. This climate enhances the country's spectacular sights, such as picturesque countrysides, fantastic beaches, and gorgeous rock formations, among others. As a result, Australia's tourist industry is world-renowned.

In comparison to other nations with significant levels of pollution, Australia provides a wonderful and healthy environment for people and visitors. Parks are a prominent feature in every Australian city, and you'll never be far from a green space in this nation, along with the metropolis and trees. So, if this is one of your worries, you should consider moving to Australia.

Entertainment

In Australia, one may easily attain a balanced lifestyle because there are countless possibilities for unwinding, ranging from opera house performances and art exhibits to major international sporting events. Sport is a national fixation for Australians, and involvement in sports is also fairly high. Cricket, soccer, rugby, and football are among the most popular sports. Netball and tennis courts, athletic clubs, bowling greens, and other amenities are available in every suburb and town.

Multiculture

Australia is mostly made up of people from many cultures and ethnicities. In contrast to other nations with obvious divisions and limits, Australia does not have a class structure. And the locals are nice and inviting. Although Australians use unusual words and have distinct accents, the majority of them understand and speak English. As a result, communicating with them is simple.

Utility Service

In Australia, getting water, gas, or electricity connection is rather simple. All you have to do is dial the service provider's number. Even if you wish to switch service providers, the new provider will coordinate everything by interacting with the previous one. It is also rather simple to obtain discounts from service providers.

Financial Stability

Australia's economic development has been nearly constant for more than 15 years, and as a result, an increasing number of individuals come to the nation each year in order to earn greater wages or salaries.

Food

With countless fast-food chains, Michelin-starred restaurants, regular eateries, and several sorts of cafés, Australia has a diverse range of cuisine options. Furthermore, the cuisine available here ranges from Chinese and Italian to real Vietnamese cuisine. If you enjoy coffee, Australia may be one of the finest places to relocate. This country is recognized for its coffee culture, and you can find a variety of coffee shops around the country.

-------------------------------

Steven Adams
 · 
Follow
Lives in Sydney, Australia (2015–present)4y
Originally Answered: What are reasons to move to Australia?
Australia is becoming an increasingly attractive option for immigrants. People from South East Asia, the UK, and South Africa have considered moving to Australia for a variety of reasons and heard from friends who already live there that Australia offers many opportunities.


It is frequently listed as one of the best places to live in the world because of its developed economy, many well-paid jobs, modern lifestyle, and high standard of living.

The following are just some of the reasons people come to Australia.

1) Free health care services


Australia's Medicare program provides free medical care in public hospitals, as well as lower costs for prescription drugs. Australian citizens, certain categories of visitors, and all eligible Australian residents can access these services after enrolling in Medicare.

Medicare in Australia covers the following for eligible patients:

A health professional such as a specialist, a doctor, an optometrist, or a dentist can provide subsidized or free treatment to a patient.
Patients with public Medicare can stay and be treated for free at public hospitals.
Private patients in public or private hospitals pay 75 percent of the Medicare Schedule fee for procedures and services.
2) Public or free education


Primary, secondary, and tertiary education in Australia is free or subsidized. It must be noted that academic results are not the only factor that the Australian public education system teaches, with equal weight given to how students interact, learn, and participate in sports. It is a holistic approach compared to its counterparts in other parts of Asia.

While English is the primary language of instruction in the Australian education system, many schools offer programs in other languages and bilingual programs.

3) Climate and weather


The temperate weather on most of Australia's east coast also makes it an attractive migration destination. The Australian east coast region has four distinct seasons with the blue skies of summer, the coolness of winter, and the crispness of autumn.

As a consequence of its location in the Southern Hemisphere, the seasons are inverted, with summer occurring from December to January and winter occurring from July to August.

4) Most Liveable Cities in the World


A survey is conducted every year in order to rank the most liveable cities in the world by the Economist. Multiple Australian cities have consistently made it to the list of the best cities to live in every year, according to these surveys. Melbourne has been a top performer year after year, including winning in 2017 for the 7th consecutive year.

A total score out of 100 is awarded to each city by the Economist in the categories of stability, healthcare, culture, environment, education, and infrastructure. Sydney scored 98.5.

5) Culture of Coffee


Is coffee your favorite beverage? Then Australia can be considered a coffee nirvana.

There is a strong coffee culture in Australia - everyone drinks coffee here. The major cities are filled with coffee shops grinding fresh beans every day. Australians have one more reason to like migrants moving from countries with similar coffee cultures.

6) Australian Food


In Australia, there are multiple Michelin star restaurants, fast food chains, cafes, and restaurants of all kinds. In Australia, there are many migrants who make up the food industry, so you can eat a diverse range of food, from authentic Vietnamese to Italian to Chinese, all made with fresh ingredients grown mostly in Australia.

Popular TV cooking shows such as My Kitchen Rules and Masterchef Australia add to Australia's food culture.

7) Citizenship Pathway


It is possible for any permanent resident to become an Australian citizen. Children born to permanent residents in Australia can apply for citizenship even if their parents don't qualify for citizenship yet. Dual citizenship in Australia is a big plus for migrants moving to the country.

8) Australian Dollars and the Economy


Australia's strong economy, coupled with its safe and secure currency, has led to the Australian dollar's reputation as one of the strongest in the world. Most migrants from southeast Asian countries are able to send money back to their home countries easily and at a reasonable cost.

Australia has a high minimum wage compared to other countries - while it is $20.33 per hour in Australia, it is just $14.66 per hour in the United Kingdom. There is $AU14.22 per hour in New Zealand, $AU14.98 in France, $AU13.17 in Germany, $AU10.45 to 13.81 per hour in Canada, and $AU10.08 per hour in the United States.

Rent and food can be afforded by anyone with a job, regardless of whether they are employed by a restaurant, retail outlet, or as a professional.

Keith Hendy
 · 
Follow
Worked at Science, played at planes, boats, and automobiles8y
Originally Answered: Why do people immigrate to Australia?
As for any decision to immigrate:

to escape persecution and hardship
for a perceived better financial future
for the weather
because they like what they hear about the lifestyle…”throw a shrimp on the barbie,” mateship (from the preamble to the Constitution “Australians are free to be proud of their country and heritage, free to realise themselves as individuals, and free to pursue their hopes and ideals. We value excellence as well as fairness, independence as dearly as mateship.”)
because it is “the Lucky Country”
to be close to family
because they want better access to all that great Australian wine
because they watched the first 4 seasons of “Rake” and want to say “fxxk you” all the time
because they love big bad spiders
because they want to live in the presence of the world’s 9 deadliest snakes
because they want to swim with the sharks
because driving on the right side of the road isn’t a big enough challenge
because they love Cricket and Aussie Rules
because they liked Jack Thompson’s arse in “Sunday Too Far Away.”
because they think Dame Edna looks just like their mother
because they think they really know what happened at The Picnic at Hanging Rock and want to make contact with the Mothership
because you have worn out your welcome in your current country (one of the original reasons behind immigration to Australia)
I’m sure I missed a few things.

----------------------------------------