Real Stories from Real People

why do people move to Australia?
Many people from poor countries come to earn money.

I came to Australia to earn money so that i can pay off my family debt in India. Currency ratio is , 1 Australian Dollar makes 45 Indian Rupee

Family had debt of $50000 AUD , If I was in India my whole life would have been spent paying that off.

My story so far , 3.5 years in Australia.

Job which makes me $220K per year , although after tax it gets reduced by 40% , still its enough for me.
I paid all my family debt , this is only important thing which i could do till now for my parents. My parents worked very hard to bring me up and having debt while my father was retiring was very worrying for them.
Right now am living wonderful , peaceful life. Now only thing left is to get married (Okay Indian parents think this is last thing :) to declare officially settled in life )
This is why I came to Australia , to live simple peaceful life. Could not ask more from God , each moment I'm thankful to him.

I will be getting my citizenship soon , when i complete 4 years.

Australia is a wonderful place.



Boot Cizme
 · 
Follow
Lives in Cairns, Queensland, Australia (1984–present)1y
Originally Answered: Why do people desire to migrate to Australia?
I emigrated to Australia specifically to escape the miserable weather in the UK. That’s it. I was twenty at the time and believed I was bulletproof. I had visited Australia on numerous occasions and had Australian friends. To say I was naive would be an understatement. These days people have a lot of different reasons - the weather being the least of their worries. Without being too melodramatic I believe that if I hadn’t of emigrated to Australia then I doubt that I’d be alive today. A few of the people I used to work with prior to emigrating have died from alcoholism, drugs or have been in gaol. Not a good batting average. If you are prepared to adapt and live in a society that will give you a chance (even though I will admit that life for A LOT of people in Australia has got a lot harder of late) then you should have a good life like I have. I purposely steered clear of expats when I first emigrated and tried to integrate. I copped a lot of insults at the start but Australians expect you to give as good as you get and I’ll never stop being a whinging Pom to most Australians 🤣🤣 I wasn’t educated here so I’m not qualified to respond to that - my level of education is not that high - but I’ve rarely been unemployed and retired with enough superannuation. I know for a fact that - with my skills - that would not have happened if I remained in the UK. So basically what I’m trying to say is that I came here for a much better life. I like Australians and Australia has been good to me. It would have been easier if I’d have been born here but to quote one of Australia’s former PM’s - Life wasn’t meant to be easy. Oh yeah, nearly forgot, the weather is excellent here in North Queensland- the hotter the better



J R
 · 
Follow
ResearcherUpvoted by 
Ren Adsett
, lives in Australia (1948-present) and 
Bgc .
, lives in Australia (1964-present)Updated 1y
Originally Answered: Why do people desire to migrate to Australia?
As an Australian born Australian, raised, educated and employed here, with many friends / colleagues etc in the same situation, the consensus is mostly this:

We like seeing foreigners here to the same extent they like seeing Australians in their countries.

Give yourself a major advantage in Australia: Assimilate, explore the country (it’s much bigger than most people realise). Make an effort to talk to people and don’t only hang around with your own countrymen. Naturally, if you speak English and understand western countries, you’ll be better off - that’s why Brits go so well here. Kiwis too, but they’re basically Aussies anyways.

Give yourself a major DISadvantage in Australia: Complain and get angry or jealous when dealing with Aussies. Don’t bother with English and don’t make Aussie friends. Stick to one small part of one city. Only access things from your own culture (eg food, entertainment and so on).

If you can afford a plane ticket to come here, you must know we’re an English speaking western country.

Eg. Some foreigners, certainly not all, arrive with bags of instant noodles and other food in case they don’t like the food here. Ridiculous and on the back foot from day 1.


-------------------------------------------------
I’m a Keralite who migrated to Australia a couple of years ago and here is my story.

There have been positives and negatives and ultimately each person will have their own reasons for migrating or staying behind.

As I’d like to finish the article on a positive note, I’ll first list out the some areas in which the Australian experience might be different or challenging compared to the Indian experience or if comparing to another developed country.

Tough to get the first job at the same level if previously at a high level in India
If you were at a manager or senior manager in India, then it may be hard to get the first job in a similar position here unless having exceptionally rare skills
Immigrants are required for jobs which the locals don’t want to do or for jobs which the locals don’t have skills to do (yet)
So, in IT, developers/testers (i.e., people who do the actual work) are in much higher demand compared to ‘managers’
This means that cushy managerial jobs are reserved for the well connected folks at the higher levels of the Australian totem pole
Low tolerance of haughtiness and low emotional intelligence
High emotional intelligence, humility and kindness are necessary for long term success here
Low tolerance of entitlement
In India, a person’s caste sometimes determine career progression even in the corporate workplace
In Australia the totem pole is built differently and one may not be able to avail of the benefits they got due to privileges they had in India due to their caste or position in society
The Tall poppy syndrome - Wikipedia is real and so again - be humble!
Low chance for career progression for introverts
Unfortunately, there is a higher chance that one would be ignored or taken for granted if they are not a social butterfly and not active at forming relationships in the workplace
Lower potential for employment and career progression for those less skilled in the English language
Unfortunately, one may find that people of lesser skills who are more fluent or speak English with a much better accent are listened to more often compared to those who are on the road to mastering the language and local accent
I’ve seen great people struggle to move higher because they didn’t have the articulation and fluency in the language of corporate political warfare
Exceptions are always there in fields where there is a skills shortage
Occasional racism
Racism is everywhere in all countries including other countries like Canada or New Zealand which are often described as ‘nicer countries’ with ‘nicer people’
One of the reasons I left India was because of regionalism and caste-ism in the corporate workplace but it now unfortunately exists in Australia too to an extent as it seems to have immigrated here too!
Your experience might be different.
Tips -
Take the effort to fit in by working on language skills and emotional intelligence
Aussies expect basic politeness and basic greetings which many Indians just don’t do and this could lead to negative situations
Be nice, graceful and and polite and take the high road
If being nice and polite is not being reciprocated, act professionally and with grace in all such instances
Low tolerance of people who don’t adhere to dignity of labor or fair payment practices
Millions of middle class and upper-middle class Indians are used to servants and many of them treat servants like servants
This is not tolerated in Australia
There are plenty of skilled professionals in Australia in the cleaning and gardening business who do a really good job and take pride in their work and their billing rates reflect the quality of work they do and enable them to live a good quality Australian middle class life
Low tolerance for patriarchy, homophobia and feelings of enmity against people and cultures
In India, patriarchal attitudes continue to limit opportunities for women in some areas
Homophobia and ‘fear of the other’ continues to limit opportunities for LGBTQ individuals even in a state which has 100% literacy and apparently has the same Human Development Index score as Portugal
A lot of progress has been made but there is still a lot to do
Australia is at a much more positive level in terms of women’s empowerment and LGBT rights
Lower tolerance of pessimism and negativity
One of the hallmarks of developed countries is a high degree of optimism
Careful constructive criticism is appreciated instead of the crab mentality
There are some workplaces where optimism is looked down upon with caution and distrust especially if being perceived as over-promising and under-delivering
Now, I’d like to list out the positives -

Free healthcare (doctor’s appointments, not medicines) for permanent residents and citizens paid for by taxes
I am on a 37% tax rate and I don’t mind paying it at all because of this.
I show my medicare card at any ‘bulk-billing’ clinic to avail of it
Compared to other countries I’ve lived in even with similar systems, the quality of public healthcare is pretty good
Nicer weather in most cities except for a few days in summer
This is in comparison to Kerala which is hotter and more humid
It feels good to walk around in Sydney or Melbourne for a few hundred meters without sweating profusely - even on those few days in summer where the temperatures can go as high as 40 to 47 degrees Celsius.
Freedom of speech, religion and press
In saffronised bhakt-heavy India, it is easy to get death threats, attacked or even killed for speaking out or trying to make the system better
In Australia, politicians shall be ridiculed if they are deserving of it.
Higher incomes
For the same role, comparable salaries are higher in Australia but there is obviously a higher productivity and skills expectation associated with high salaries or billing rates
IT contractors typically make between 70 to 120 dollars per hour or higher for 8 hours of work in a day but there is no job security
Personally, I envy the certified plumber or certified electrician who gets paid between 200 to 500 dollars for a few hours of work
Better work-life balance (except maybe in high salaried roles)
Many Australians work reasonable hours but there are several who burn midnight oil too especially those in highly paid roles
Much lesser pollution compared to metro cities in India
This is one of the reasons why I moved out of India
Pollution in Melbourne / Pollution in Sydney
Working garbage collection supported by local government taxes which start at around 150 dollars a month and depends on the amount of land owned by the land owner
A working system for reimbursement of solar panel generated power
I’ve got solar panels on my house and earn money from the power company for the power sent back into the grid. Typically this means much lower electricity bills or an actual credit in summer if I’m really frugal and run heavy appliances only during the day
India gets much more solar energy compared to Australia and such a system would have been really beneficial
Rule of law enforced (to a good extent)
Back in Kerala, Nokku kooli - Wikipedia was a huge problem and I’ve had multiple unpleasant experiences. No such thing in Australia!
However, if multiple right wing websites are to be believed, teenage troublemakers are let off with minimal punishment and there are some Australians who despise this leniency
Cheaper and good quality alcohol - especially whiskey and wine
I’ve bought a 700 ml bottle of Glenfiddich single malt for just 56 AUD when it was on sale in a regular store (not duty free). The same bottle will cost more than double in India
While Australian wines are not the best on the planet some are pretty decent. I’m quite frugal and so easily satisfied by the 4 or 5 dollar wine bottles I pick up from Aldi.
Quality standards in food and groceries
One of the worries I had when I was in Kerala was the pesticide ridden vegetables that were imported from Tamil Nadu
In Australia, I can shop for quality vegetables and not be worried about pesticides because quality standards are enforced and complaints will be tackled by appropriate authorities
High quality meat - especially beef, lamb and pork
Eating beef in North India is a dangerous game with sometimes fatal consequences
Even in the IT industry, college educated colleagues from North India may ostracize beef eaters from the South
With a BBQ tradition and massive ranches (cattle stations) the size of some countries, Australia is a meat eater’s paradise
If you are a bit more adventurous, please feel free to try roo meat too! (Kangaroo meat - Wikipedia)
Ease of doing business
There are hundreds of thousands of immigrants who once were employees and then eventually started their own successful businesses
There is a good support framework in place for encouraging and enabling people to start their own business
Government benefits
Permanent residents and citizens on lower incomes are eligible for various benefits paid out to them by the government. One of them is the Family Tax benefit. Also, families with more children get more tax benefits.
Negative gearing
This is a political topic, but I believe that negative gearing encourages the flow of capital into property, enables wealth creation and decent quality rental accommodation availability
Though incentives for property investment exist in India, I believe they are not as encouraging as the system here in Australia
Lower stamp duty
There is no stamp duty for first home buyers in many states
Higher real estate and stamp duty is one of the reasons why corruption by the way of under-declaration of actual property value is so rampant in India. This is not the case in Australia.
The Roadworthy Certificate system
Before buying a used car, one can ask the seller to supply a road-worthy certificate which somewhat ensures that the car doesn’t have critical defects
For this, the road worthy test must be done at a reputable authorized location
Systems like these reduce instances of cheating to an extent
Residential Tenancies Bond Authority and Tribunal system for tenant landlord disputes
In Australia, the tenancy bond is held by a government authority and not by the landlord directly
Also, if there is a problem with the rental accommodation, then there are standards to be complied with and the landlord can be taken to the tribunal and asked to rectify issues
In India, there is no such system as far as I know and sometimes tenants find it hard to get the bond / deposit amount back from their landlords
Proper town planning
Planning codes and regulations are stricter compared to India
A typical suburb is designed for a good quality of life with enough space allocated for parks, greenery, bicycle tracks and even wetlands in some cases
Having a large amount of land is a great blessing for Australia in this regard
Thats all I could muster for the moment.

Good luck! :)
